Rules API: Allow filtering by rule name (#12270)
prometheus/prometheus: docs/querying/api.md

```

URL query parameters:

- `type=alert|record`: return only the alerting rules (e.g. `type=alert`) or the recording rules (e.g. `type=record`). When the parameter is absent or empty, no filtering is done.

> - `rule_name[]=<string>`: only return rules with the given rule name. If the parameter is repeated, rules with any of provided names are returned. If we've filtered out all the rules of a group, the group is not returned. When the parameter is absent or empty, no filtering is done.

Reviewer: Here and below:

```suggestion
- `rule_name[]=<string>`: only return rules with the given rule name. If the parameter is repeated, rules with any of the provided names are returned. If we've filtered out all the rules of a group, the group is not returned. When the parameter is absent or empty, no filtering is done.
```

:+1: Feel free to merge after fixing this nit :)

```

URL query parameters:

- `type=alert|record`: return only the alerting rules (e.g. `type=alert`) or the recording rules (e.g. `type=record`). When the parameter is absent or empty, no filtering is done.

> - `rules=alertName,RuleName`: return only the alerting and recording rules with the specified names. If we've filtered out all the rules of a group, the group is not returned. When the parameter is absent or empty, no filtering is done.

Reviewer: Rule names may contain commas, so we would have to introduce escaping to make this fully correct. But I would propose just allowing the parameter to be repeated, like we do for the `match[]` parameter in various API endpoints (see https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/querying/api/#finding-series-by-label-matchers for example). That's both an established pattern and keeps things simpler.

The question is then whether `rule[]` would be a good name for the repeated filter parameter. Maybe `rule_name[]` to make it more explicit what we're filtering on, especially in case there's other future filters for this endpoint (e.g. I guess it would make sense to also filter by rule group name at the same time to fully scope your query and not accidentally select matching rule names from an unrelated group?).

Regarding naming I also noticed that we accidentally(?) started using both camelCase (e.g. `scrapePool` in the `/api/v1/targets` endpoint) and snake_case (e.g. `match_target` in `/api/v1/targets/metadata`) for HTTP parameters. But snake case was there first and is also more consistent with the HTTP path naming that we use for our endpoints, so I would prefer it for future parameter names I think.

Reviewer: Good point about the file name! Yeah, that sounds great to me :)

URL query parameters:

- `type=alert|record`: return only the alerting rules (e.g. `type=alert`) or the recording rules (e.g. `type=record`). When the parameter is absent or empty, no filtering is done.

> - `rule_name[]=<rule name>`: return the groups and its rules of the specified alerting and recording rules names, the parameter supports repetition. If we've filtered out all the rules of a group, the group is not returned. When the parameter is absent or empty, no filtering is done.

Reviewer: For the placeholder I would just use `<string>` everyhwere, because otherwise we usually define it at the top of the page as a new placeholder type.

Hmm, and I think not all of the plural / singular grammar matches up in the description ("groups and its" and "rules names")? How about something simpler like:

```suggestion
- `rule_name[]=<string>`: only return rules with the given rule name. If the parameter is repeated, rules with any of the provided names are returned. If we've filtered out all the rules of a group, the group is not returned. When the parameter is absent or empty, no filtering is done.
```

And similar for the others.

Author: I have done a bit more wordsmithing:

- removed the filtering comment from files and groups - it only applies to rules.
- included your suggested wording for the first sentence
- included the entity name in the second sentence

My only nit is that the first sentence is not entirely accurate as suggested - what we return in all cases is rule groups (because it's what the API returns) so saying something like "only return rules" is not entirely accurate, but perhaps this is OK? As in reality, what people come to look at here is rules.
